+++
author = "Alex Bilson"
date = "2022-12-08"
lastmod = "2022-12-29 09:02:34"
+++
Sometimes I need web-available scratch paper. Until I have a better idea, this is it.

## 2023 Emphases

My goals broadly fall into three categories.

### Health

Health has been on the goal list for multiple years. It's certainly one of the least successful projects of the year. But the obstacles have been excessive, so let's try again this year. Broadly, there is bodily health, mental health, and spiritual health.

### Relationships

Besides the simple need for friends in a new town, relationships are a huge source of meaning and purpose. This has become more clear to me as I've aged and is likely to make the top for years to come. It's a broad encompassing my relationship with Amie, Graham and Royal, a wider range of family members, neighbors, local friends, and national/international friends.

### Joy

We're in Rapid City for respite and, while improved health and relationships do help with recovery, sometimes we just need to do things because they bring us joy.

Having just a small set of emphases may help keep my focus when new opportunities arise in the new year. We've typically had a larger swath of categories which, while they help us set goals in every area important to us, doesn't help with new priorities. We have had themes though, and they've had a similar effect as emphases.

## 2023 Goals

These are the full (unfiltered) list of goals. Many, but not all, will make the final list.

- Hike the Centennial Trail with friends
- Pursue monthly DMM coaching with AllNations
- Transition half our meals to a semi-diabetic diet
- Pursue regular weekly aerobic or anaerobic exercise
- Memorize a portion of the Bible (Hebrews? Deuteronomy?)
- Recommit to Present Play interactions and responses
- Renovate our home to host out-of-town guests
- Visit Denver-area friends
- Practice low-risk Emmanuel Prayer with friends and neighbors
- Organize a neighborhood block party (delegate)
- Spur the local community towards extraordinary prayer
- Read more books for pleasure (Ursula K Le Guin, Robert MacFarlane)
- Celebrate the completion of my MBA program with a special trip
- Discover new ways to serve others with my MBA
- Make Graham's fifth birthday extra-special
- Take Graham camping in preparation for a two-day hike (birthday?)
- Create a story box for a family remembrance tradition
- Help the boys discover more about Jesus
- Help Amie start part-time counseling work
- Gain a Biblical view of complaining
- Take the boys skiing
- Enroll Amie in an art class (check out the Dahl Art Center: pottery)
- Play more music at home
- Take more three-day weekends and do fun and restful things together

### Centennial Trail

This goal is half exercise and respite and half community. My next steps are:

1. set aside at least five weekends in Summer 2023
2. email an invite signup sheet
