+++
author = "Alex Bilson"
date = "2018-07-01"
lastmod = "2023-03-16 07:42:00"
epistemic = "evergreen"
tags = ["holiness","heart","behavior"]
+++
**Holiness comes from heart resolve, not specific actions.**

Daniel was a potential skilled leader in the king of Babylon's retinue. Chosen from a young age to eat from the king's table and train in all the ways of the Babylonians, he and his companions would receive an expert education as a means to absorb them into the culture and build the kingdom of Babylon. Daniel lost his home, his family, and even his name - for their overseer renamed Daniel, "Belteshazzar." Daniel and his friends applied their minds and bodies to the task and excelled above their peers. What ultimately separated them from their peers was their wisdom and understanding, but these gifts came, not merely from sound minds, but from the LORD whom they had separated themselves to. Though they risked the wrath of the king upon their beloved overseer for what might have been perceived as scorn for local customs, they stayed unswervingly true to what they knew of the LORD's direction for their people.

Daniel and his companion's decision to abstain from meat and wine was not to follow an elimination diet. Neither did they choose other ways to remain separated from their peers, such as choosing to dress differently or demand the use of their original, God-centered names. He didn't even refuse to eat. Daniel 1:8 says that Daniel "purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the... king's meat... therefore he requested... (_KJV_)."

Daniel demonstrates that obedience to the LORD is the foundation of holiness, and that it may lead a businessperson to act differently than other business owners. But holiness is not a cookie-cutter approach - Christians who are set apart for the LORD may look just like their colleagues for long stretches, but their heart's resolve may set them on a different path as circumstances arise. Daniel had accepted many changes to his outward appearance without qualms, but when a change that would have upset his faith was demanded of him, Daniel tactfully requested to take another course. He negotiated with his overseer and was given ten days to prove that his deviation would not cause harm to himself or others. Like Daniel, one's work may continue for years without directly challenging one's faith. But a wise business person will not mildly accept directions which harm his own faith or that of his peers. With heartfelt resolve, he will look for opportunities to negotiate an acceptable compromise that will allow his faith to continue unmolested. Only when no avenue remains will holiness require a literal separation in order to maintain one's integrity.

Holiness can be used as an excuse to disengage from circumstances which make us uncomfortable, or to remain aloof from those we judge. Daniel and Jesus both demonstrate a holiness which stays on the same level as others without compromise or judgment. As I seek to be holy at work, my efforts should be directed away from taking action merely for the sake of standing out or standing apart and towards what aligns with love for God and the build-up of faith. While the foods I eat make no difference to my relationship with God as a meat-loving Gentile, the conversations I indulge in do affect the way I perceive God. Not only gossip, but also conversations which stem from fear or self-satisfaction pull me away from a joyful connection and trust in Jesus and towards my own efforts to establish security or pleasure apart from God. Ultimately, my heart's resolve to love God and others will result in holiness with no deliberate efforts to separate myself from others.
